everybody welcome to impact Theory you
were here my friends because you believe
that human potential is nearly limitless
but you know that having potential is
not the same as actually doing something
with it so our goal with this show and
company is to introduce you to the
amazing people and ideas that are gonna
help you actually execute on your dreams
all right today's guest has been an
entrepreneur since the age of 8 and
we're not talking about a cutesy
entrepreneur with a lemonade stand set
up by his parents we're talking about a
for-real entrepreneur who started a
business selling flowers and doing
manual labor to help make ends meet his
true life story reads like a Hollywood
movie that's so outrageous you would
never believe it abandoned by his father
at one and his mother at age six he
endured physical psychological and
sexual abuse as a child until his
grandmother got custody of him he
refused however to let that hardship
define him and defying the odds he went
on to build a very successful business
that saw him consulting for fortune 500
CEOs by the time he was 19 he service
companies like Apple Verizon Microsoft
Costco and Walmart providing guidance
and innovation in branding marketing and
sales and at its height his company was
making six figures a month providing him
the kind of life that most people can
only dream of but for him it felt Hollow
so we ultimately exited that company and
founded a non-profit aimed at combating
mental illness rescuing at-risk youth
and helping people reach their highest
potential at last count and I'm sure it
is even more by now he has travelled
over 81,000 miles done over 675 thousand
minutes of communication on the topic
and given over six hundred and
twenty-four hours worth of interviews in
an effort to reach people and help his
work has been featured on Fox
a-any CNN TechCrunch and many many more
please help me in welcoming the man who
truly cannot be broken the founder of
the nonprofit powerhouses a human
project and superhuman dot life Wesley
Chapman
good that what you gave me chills
well did trust me you gave me chills
like 80 times doing the research it's
it's crazy and the thing that really
impacted me the most and since we're
talking about getting the chills is the
perfect place to start with the
background that you've had how did you
find beauty in your life again because
most people they don't and once they go
down to the dark place that you went
that's it it's game over it's a great
question um I mean Beauty to me was the
simple things I think that was something
that I just biologically had programmed
in me from somewhere and I also think
that when you don't know the other side
so I mean all I knew from start to you
know the point where I changed
everything I was 16 was darkness I
really didn't have a comprehension of
joy like for me and I didn't understand
anything but the darkness but there were
these glimpse there were these moments
that things would happen like I remember
my first Christmas that I can really
remember with my grandma and I got this
ninja house and like I can vividly still
to this day see that ninja house and in
and I got one stuffed animal his name's
Ralph and I still have him to this day
my son now has him but it was just those
little tiny things and then when I would
see those or I'd experience those I'd
want more right so it was this internal
internal combustion happening inside of
like I have to figure out a way to have
more of the ninja house more of the
Ralph's like I have to have these these
things more in my life and normally
that's fulfilled by parents or that's
fulfilled by out but it wasn't for me
even my grandma she was so overwhelmed
with taking care of me and I was quite
the little Hellion and so I mean she
just was trying to get me to survive let
alone provide any kind of joy for me and
so it was just one of those things where
I had to just find it from within and
then when I did it became like a drug
and then that led to its own issues and
problems and different things but yeah I
think it was a combination of a lot of
different factors but it was just more
about the internal like I want this more
you know just that once I had that
little flavor i won
more of it and I would do anything to
try to obtain that I knew a guy once
that had a really bad stutter and he
said the problem with stuttering is that
you know you're gonna do it so it makes
you anxious and so it's like this
self-reinforcing loop of negativity
which the more you stuttered the more
you're afraid you're gonna stutter so
the more that you do stutter and I it
just gets worse and worse right and he
said something that always stuck with me
and he said getting that cycle going in
the opposite direction is brutally
difficult work and I know that a lot of
the kids that you reach out to and
having watched a lot of the content that
you put out around human camp which is
you want to talk about chills like that
that was crew it's so amazing to hear
these kids tell their own story in their
own words but how how did you get like
what are the techniques you use to get
it going the other way so that it was
being able to take those glimpses into
beauty and turn them into a full-blown
emotional experience a lot of self-talk
you know I mean a there's been a lot of
marketing material created around
positive thinking and you know self
conversation and and they're making
money on it obviously and I respect that
to some degree but the reality is is
just looking in the mirror and telling
yourself the story that you want I mean
and a lot of people tell the story that
everybody else wants them to tell right
so the marketing message is so young
girls right now I'm fat I'm ugly my hair
is not long enough it's not blonde
enough it's not brunette enough my hips
are too big they're not big enough
whatever it is right the the story is
being told from out here and then you're
bringing it to you what you have to do
is tell the story you want and so for me
I didn't want to be the kid that didn't
have a dad didn't have a mom that was
abused that was you know living in
poverty that's not the story I wanted I
wanted to be the powerful person I
wanted to be the one that people looked
up to I wanted to be the person that
that was respected with his friends not
made fun of with you know his classmates
so I just started telling that story
over and over in the mirror I mean it
was as simple as that and then I started
but started telling a new story about I
am that kind of yeah instead of I am a
for example troubled youth right I was
told that oh you're just your trouble to
us so we need to help you and I'm like
no I'm not a troubled youth like I'm I
am a youth right so let's get where
there were trouble I'm
happy youth I'm a playful youth I'm a
successful youth like put the word fill
the word in there that you want and if
you believe the word trouble and much
like the stutter thing then that's what
you are right you're just perpetuating
that stereotype or that conversation
more and more and whenever I did that
whenever I wish I'd have my moments of
weakness where I would try and try and
then fail and as soon as I'd start like
just kind of okay you know but you're
just like everything like frumpy and
just like all right I'm just gonna give
up that's when my life became worse and
worse and I started making worse
decisions and then I started realizing
like wait if I just keep pushing over
here it's hard it's hard as hell there's
no easy answer to this there's no like
okay well every morning at six o'clock
you know wake up and meditate for ten
minutes and tell yourself you're
beautiful and then go like it's not it
doesn't work like that it's a constant
battle and you're gonna have moments of
complete and total defeat where it's
just like what am i doing like why do I
keep trying to do this and it for me
again
it was just reminding myself of I want
these happy moments I want to have this
life and and so it just it started to
perpetuating little things that I would
see like a new friend at school or a
relationship or you know would start to
like blossom into different things and
then with the business it would be oh
wow like I can go and sell and I can do
it and as soon as I started like seeing
just a little bit of progress then that
motivated me for the next and the next
and just build and build and build and
I'd still say I'm building like I still
have issues but it's just focusing on
that that different conversation telling
a different story and the story you want
and that's the first thing I tell you
this' like look don't look at my story
don't look at someone else's story
what's the story you want and that's
that's a really simple question but it
is such a difficult question for these
kids to answer with all the different
things coming at them from all the
different angles all the different
marketing messages their parent messages
the world messages movies all this stuff
breaking down what they want a lot of
them have no idea because they've never
thought that's even a possibility so
you've talked in The Walking with West
series about living reality right right
so are you talking about finding anchor
moments like what do you tell the kids
find anchor moments in your real life
like and sort of fan those flames or
how do you teach them to brick-by-brick
begin to build that story yeah
everyone's different you know cuz every
one has a different story and I think we
get locked into like the horrific
stories it's like really easy to say oh
wow let that's such a triumphant moment
that he came out of that you know and
whatever but there are a lot of kids who
are struggling in freakin La Jolla
California or Beverly Hills California
or whatever zip code that is doing
really well on this planet they're still
struggling with self-worth they're still
struggling with identity so just because
it may not be that they come from a
really bad background they still are
having issues with reality and what is
what is something that they can hold on
to and what is something that can anchor
to and so the first step that I always
do with anyone that I work with youth
adult whatever is what do you want and
and that question becomes like a rabbit
hole for figuring out and pulling and
dissecting and coming through and then
when we finally get there then we see
certain things in their lives that have
given them that want or that desire or
that curiosity and then you just start
working through that and the more layers
of success that they can create the
stronger their house becomes right more
bricks
yeah there's few people that I've found
that talk about narrative that really
understand narrative externally as a
brand marketing guy and then narrative
internally about how you construct a
story that's really powerful one how did
you start conceiving of narrative and
two how should people be using that
inside you've said that you know
empowerment is never going to come
externally it's always going to come
internally so how can people use that
narrative to tell themselves an
empowering story for me so the first
place where I saw that was in Marvel
right was in was in the comics like the
first thing is I think the first one I
can remember a Superman and it was just
and I know that's not Marvel but like
the superhero world the comic world and
I just remember just seeing this like
normal-looking person quote-unquote
right and and yet he had all these
superpowers but then everybody hated him
and so then he had to have these moments
you know he liked the whole up and down
and everything and it had a very very
young age it just clicked with me that
it's not that they have to have somebody
else outside of them say they're a
superhero or
they're amazing or they can save the
world it's they have to have this moment
web of themselves like the Incas was in
the cave right where it's like oh wait
like you are Superman you are this
person you are this this individual and
people may not like that but this is who
you are and go out and be you and that
really clicked with me of like wait it
has nothing to do with what you do
externally or what people say it's how
you view yourself and what you do inside
and so that's where I came up with this
concept of you know put the put the
victim to bed and wake the hero up
instead and the next part of that is you
have to be a hero to yourself before you
can save the world and so you have to
have that moment of I am Who I am I'm
comfortable in who that is and I'm gonna
go out and use Who I am in the world in
the best way possible and that that was
very young for me and I don't know you
know
why or how or whatever but it was a very
I was a very young person to understand
that fully and and probably didn't
understand it to the level I do now but
it was enough for me to say okay so I'm
not defined by what my parents did or
what their parents did or what the
system is done or what the adoption
agency didn't do or what some counselor
didn't do or whatever
I'm defined by who I am so the actions
that I take so I can be known as the
individual who tries to help people and
who is polite and nice and kind and all
these different things and so I just
made that decision and then started
telling that story yeah do Jesus okay so
you drop like 80 different powerful like
deep wisdom on that one so let's dive
into a few of them so first of all I
absolutely love that quote put the
victim to bed wake the hero up instead
first things that rhyme or preview
something like seventy two percent more
true or something hilarious like that
cool so that one I love it because it
rhymes so one what do you like that
decision where you decide to be that or
the other you can say it I think in a
super powerful way because you have been
victimized but you refuse to play the
victim walk us through that like why
shouldn't people give into seeing
themselves as a victim and they really
have been victimized what does every
human being wants one thing in my
opinion I mean you rip it all down and
you get down to it we all want control
right that's we want to be in control of
something whether it's ourselves other
people
future like we want control it makes us
feel safe which is really what we I
guess if we take it to the next level we
land we really want to safety and
control as part of that you know getting
safety when you're a victim you're in
zero control like you have zero control
and then we can go you know from the
simplest thing of like you're a victim
and you want the government to take care
of it well what if the government fails
well now you're screwed right so you
need to be independent in that space
you're being abused you're a victim yes
I understand that there should be
sympathy inside of being a victim for
something that happened but that's the
key something that happened if it's
happening that's what we're talking a
completely different thing here and I
want to make sure that's clear if you're
currently being abused you're currently
being you know victimized then please
seek help and it's not being a victim to
ask for help what's really - me being a
victim is you're past it it's happened
and now you just keep replaying that in
your head over and over and over again I
was the last time I was molested I was
about seven six and a half seven years
old I carried that and and again I was
physically abused after but I'm talking
sexual molestation I carried that Toes
about 16 years old inside of me and
constantly told that story every day
anytime something would go bad in my
life
I would just look at people and be like
well you know this is what happened to
me and da-da-da-da-da and it when I was
16 I stopped and I thought that person
hasn't touched me for 910 years yet they
continually touch me every single day of
my life so who's really in control who
really even though I was like trying to
be the big bad like they'll never hurt
me again you know whatever I was still
allowing them to hurt me every single
day so I let go of that control so being
a victim is being completely powerless
and and taking away all control you
might have which ultimately doesn't make
you feel safe which ultimately doesn't
give you happiness which ultimately
doesn't give you prosperity and you know
fill in the blank and so what does being
a victim get you nothing absolutely
nothing so if you're getting nothing
from one direction why not turn around
and go to the other direction I mean to
me it's really common sense but you have
to break down that and you have to give
people this understanding that it's okay
to have had something happen to you like
you're not a bad person because of that
and it sounds crazy and
somebody's watching this who's gone
through something you know the guilt you
feel and the things that you carry that
you haven't told anyone because you're
ashamed or all these things that's okay
but continuing to allow it to affect you
that's on you that's not on the abuser
that's not on the situation that's on
you it's a choice you have to make of I
am no longer gonna let this happen and
I've seen people probably the most
miraculous case I've ever worked on as a
woman in her mid-50s and when I met her
she was in a wheelchair she's been in a
wheelchair since she was 14 she was
raped when she was 13 so from 14 to
mid-50s she was in a wheelchair she
started working with me started
unlocking a lot of different things in
her she started doing a lot it wasn't
just like one thing so I want to make it
really clear it wasn't just like one
moment but over the last two years now
doesn't use a wheelchair works out in
the gym every morning does CrossFit all
kinds of stuff she's had all these
surgeries you know they said they were
all these problems what was happening
was she was just allowing that
victimization that that thing to control
her life for this long I know that's
that's like a really extreme case of it
affecting every aspect of her body her
spine her nervous system all that once
she started letting all of that go now
she's you know and it's just it's an
amazing story but I've seen that even
with youth you know extreme anxiety
massive depression eating disorders all
these things happening because they're
holding on to something both in shame
and in victimization once we let them
let that go and they start rewriting
their story and they start being this
hero to themselves so many things start
happening in their lives in the opposite
direction so it's just again path of
victimization is nothing path of hero
you might as well give it a shot and all
the different cool things that happen
along the way are just amazing Wow
so I love that concept of really
thinking about your decisions through
the lens of efficacy and I know that
you're a big proponent I mean you have
to be in the marketing world of really
looking at what are my results right am
I getting results or not and and that's
exactly how I think about being a victim
and and you know obviously you've got
you've dealt with people that are
dealing with much more extreme
victimhood
but I think that you've touched on
really a whole spectrum and I know that
a lot of people watching this they have
been victimized like that so they may
not even realize like how subtle and
toxic the notion of being out of control
that things are happening to you that
you can't control that situation or make
different beliefs about yourself but the
simple barometer for me is look at your
belief system right that's where people
get tripped up forget about your actions
for a second look at your belief system
what you believe about yourself what you
believe about the world what you believe
about other people it's great quote from
Einstein and he said the most important
decision anybody has to make is whether
or not you live in a hostile or friendly
universe right like are things actively
working against you or is it your coming
for you right exactly and we see so much
of that right now
you know with with all the different
world stuff going on the politics in the
United States and it's just it comes
down to a choice and it's a choice you
have to make and to your point I have
something called the ELMO effect which
is that and I'll just very quickly go
over it but just because you haven't
been victimized at a level that you know
they write a story or a book about
doesn't mean that you aren't suffering
in similar pain and this is
scientifically been proven I think was
Harvard did a big study about the
different levels of abuse because as a
society socially we look and we say wow
sexual abuse like that's the top like if
you've been sexually abused
holy crap like everything's been taken
from you physical abuse man that's
that's horrible mental abuse like all
these layers layers of abuse and then we
put like different classifications to it
like right like this is priority so on
and so forth but then the question comes
around is how does the brain react to
abuse how does the brain react to
certain things and the the findings in
the end is the brain only understands
what it understands based on the on the
chemical reactions that have happened
inside of that being so for example I've
never broken a bone in my life there is
no wood in this thing but like I just
haven't but I have stubbed my pinky toe
like a thousand times it's the most
painful thing in the world like it
really is now a guy that's broken
you know his leg in six places is gonna
be like Wes you're a wuss like I can't
believe that but the reality is I only
understand what I've gone through
so the ELMO effect is very simple you
may have had something happen and I
always say it's your eighth birthday
all you ever wanted was the Elmo doll
right you told your grandma your grandpa
your friends your everyone mom dad all I
want is an Elmo doll your birthday comes
around you get an Xbox and mountain-bike
and $500 and gift certificates but no
Elmo doll now for 20 years you're living
your life and every time you're in a
relationship you'll text you'll do
something and they won't respond to you
or you ask for something you don't get
it and every time you have this
self-sabotaging thing in a relationship
where you go to the person you say you
never listen to me never hear what I'm
saying even though that person's doing
so many other things for you when you're
asking for certain things it's not being
reciprocated you go all the way back to
that 8th year that that barometer that
benchmark that was set that all you
wanted was an Elmo doll regardless of
all the cool stuff you just got you
didn't get an Elmo at all so thus people
weren't listening to your feelings
aren't being validated and heard and
you're 28 years old figuring out why you
can't have relationships and the Elmo
doll effect is actually a real case that
I worked on I've just kind of like
breaking through and figuring out where
was that set up where this person was
just you know self sabotaging every
single time and it comes came out to be
that they wanted something for their
birthday when they were younger and they
didn't get it and they've been holding
on to that and and even like admitted to
themselves that every Christmas they're
thinking like yeah finally I'll get it
you know it's like 28 29 years old as
soon as they release that it's like
they're not playing the victim anymore
so that may seem like really silly in
all this other stuff we've been talking
about but to to people who are watching
this who haven't gone through something
horrific you may be holding on to
something as simple as a stupid little
Elmo doll that's affecting your belief
system your story and giving you limits
in your life instead of creating a limit
lists and how do you teach people to go
back and sort of renew perspective on
the Elmo doll it's it's really you know
just quiet space kind of putting
yourself in a position of just really
kind of going through and timeline in
your life and I usually start with like
what's your first childhood memory and
then from there you know you can kind of
start architecting and building
different story and figuring out like
where things happened but I think that
most people they know what's holding
them back at some level and they just
don't want to be honest with it and
they'll do a lot to bury it and the
older you get the more it gets buried
but I think if you really look back on
your life you can say okay that's
and I just don't want to take ownership
of that and a lot of times it's like I
said that shame whether it happened to
you or you did it you know it's that
shame of just let go a shame like if
anything we've proven in this world like
we're we're a world of forgiveness like
we will forgive people who are honest
and vulnerable and real but you've got
to be that first in order for us to you
know but you got to do that for yourself
first you got to forgive yourself so
once you identify the thing that's there
how do you sort of retrain your mind to
look at it differently
so what I've done is it's it's all
perspective right so you look at I will
go back to my story as horrible as my
story is the perspective that I look at
and what I look at it is is that I have
an uncanny ability to understand human
beings in trauma like that's a gift it's
it's no longer a curse which is what you
know my young adult life it was always a
curse now it's a gift like I can truly
understand just about any story and I
know that sounds so cheesy and silly
because of some of the things that have
been marketed but like there are
positives in every situation that we go
through and even in the entrepreneurial
world were trained I think that's
another thing that's really benefited me
is like failure I think it's more of our
egos that we don't want to say like
failure exists it's like no failure
doesn't exist it's a learning what
learning moment no you screwed up you
failed like let's just own that like
there's nothing wrong with that and yes
you should learn from those failures but
the things that I learned through the
abuse that I went through we're
incredibly powerful I mean my ability to
withstand life like good luck knocking
me down like that that really that's not
an ego or a cocky thing it's just like
good luck and what's cool is I didn't
know any of this stuff when I was a kid
other until I was about 16 17 I started
like reading encyclopedias on the human
body in mind but even then we had no
clue and now like all this science is
coming out about energy and positive and
negative and chemical hormones being
stored in the brain and like memories
actually releasing endorphins like all
this stuff's happening and it's like wow
cool like the monks had something yeah
it's like we're we're like going and
proving these very very very very
ancient rituals to be scientifically
like accurate
and who knew where they got their
inspiration but regardless we're now
proving that this rewriting of the story
this telling you know yourself and
believing something different
literally changes the chemical makeup in
your body which releases different
hormones and different endorphins which
then allows you to have a different you
know complete outlook and not just that
but you know we're central beings so we
sense other things from other human
beings right like we use the old adage
of dogs right like if you're scared of a
dog and you go up to its gonna know
you're scared and so it's gonna bark at
you more or whatever human beings are
the same way right if you if your own
confident you don't feel sexy and you
don't feel this way that's how you're
gonna come across not because that's
what you really maybe our skin and you
know skin and all that but that's the
chemicals that you're releasing so you
know people ask me all the time how did
you get Jody wish you could do like a
little like degree right because like
she's she's hot as hell and so it's like
how did I this little scrawny like 160
dude get that as a wife and I look at my
sake cuz my chemicals rock right like
she was just attracted to that and it's
and it's whatever but it's true and you
look at different things in the world
and you see people you know we both have
a mutual friend Gary Vaynerchuk right
you hang out with that guy and like no
matter how cool you think you are you're
not as cool as Gary like when you're
with him like he just has that like
genuine awesome thing and you've
interviewed some great people and you
probably tell stories about that but
that's chemical and that's based off of
the belief it's based off of all the
different things that we're talking
about and so now science is proving that
which is really fun and this is your
concept of bio worth right right yeah so
guys if you haven't already seen it he's
done an amazing TED talk on bio worth
you guys definitely want to check that
out it's pretty incredible you just
basically rewind the last five minutes
and play them back knowing that that's
the concept of bio Earth I mean it's
really pretty interesting and that's
something that is absolutely core and
central to me as an entrepreneur to me
as you know what I want to do in the
world is to really help people
understand that if you grow to really
understand neuroanatomy if you
understand
you alluded even to hormones and if you
really understand that stuff and maybe
this is just me but in understanding it
I was able to visualize it and
visualizing it I could take control of
it and didn't feel like I had to be at
the mercy of my emotions or just what I
was going through from a neurochemical
standpoint and then a big one for me was
understanding the way the brain rewires
itself yeah so neuroplasticity all that
stuff is pretty incredible knowledge is
power and I mean just just simple things
right just understanding where your
organs are in your body most people have
no idea like what does a gallbladder do
I don't know we can probably take it out
can wait like should we like you know
like I mean it's just so many different
things the liver it regenerates itself
it's the only organ that can literally
regenerate itself so understanding what
this is right from head to toe and just
having a basic concept of where things
are and being able to visualize that is
so powerful it's so powerful all right
let's take a sharp left here I want to
go back to so on the set of your show
waking up with West you have iron man
hanging on the background you've got
Thor you made a reference to Superman
earlier who's your favorite superhero
and why oh nice question so Iron Man
easy okay and to me it's because he
amplifies the most of love like who I
think I am I guess and also it was a
well you can't say that without telling
us who you think you are
yes so it's just this concept of like I
don't have any super gift right like I'm
not Superman with like the Sun recharges
me and I'm awesome I don't have
spider-man or webs all that fun stuff
but like Iron Man is just a really
successful smart guy who builds a really
cool suit that can do anything right and
so it's that kind of concept of I can
put on any armor that I want and be able
to accomplish anything in this world and
that really for me now it's it's done
different things in my life
in the previous before I started human
project and you alluded to it with my
business I wore suits literal suits like
in very expensive suits and the more
money I could spend on my suits the more
awesome I felt about myself and that was
a guard right if you invited me to go
bowling right I'd be in a suit really oh
yeah like there was there was jokes that
like I was born in a suit because that
was my armor because no one would get to
like me telling my sister
he's a new thing I didn't start publicly
telling my story till I was 27 Wow 27 28
and so again shame all these different
things and so that suit protected me
like that was my armor and so Iron Man
to me has meant a couple of different
things in my life and even when you
study like the comic book of Iron Man he
makes all these different
transformations throughout his his life
and now in the Marvel series they're
finally kind of at that last chapter of
where he only uses the suit to do things
that matter but really he's just who he
is and he's out there and he's you know
kind of dropped the playboy and he's
dropped everything and whatever and that
happens in the comics where he just kind
of goes from this like really arrogant
you know all about himself gets the suit
thinks he's cool and then falls in love
has this whole transformation you know
goes through the whole process and then
at the end it's like the suit is just a
tool and that's where I kind of feel I'm
at now is the suit is just a tool so if
I need to go and help youth right we
just had a case where we had a girl come
forward and ended up being about 20
other girls for being molested by the
same guy so I had to put on a suit there
that it that I had to go in and be her
advocate and go against a system that's
broken massively broken and just about
getting myself arrested and every other
fun thing but the suit was there to make
it happen and at the end of the day the
guys now serving two life terms but the
the thing is is like now I use the suit
as a tool you really are the perfect
example of what I find so empowering
about superheroes what I find empowering
about narrative in general is the stuff
is there if you're ready to take it on
and my big beef and one of the reasons
that impact theory exists is to get
people to understand that the way that
we tell mythology in a modern context is
largely through superheroes certainly
here in the u.s. it's a little less
pervasive internationally but in the
u.s. one of the most powerful things
that we have to convey how you should be
living your life your value system right
with great power comes great
responsibility I mean there's like all
these things that maybe some people
don't even realize come from comic books
but you know all this really powerful
stuff coming in comics and if people can
stop dismissing it as being something
for kids and really embrace
like you have like the self-awareness of
understanding the suit the awareness to
be reading this comic book and going hey
wait a second the way that this guy is
using his suits very similar to how I'm
using my suit maybe they're different
but then being able to understand the
journey that he's gone the empowerment
doing something that matters and and
having that similar transformation in
your own life to me is is just insanely
powerful
yeah stories I think there's so much
power and story and it's why I chose to
share my story you know I don't get
anything out of sharing my story
personally it's not a healing moment
like I had my healing moment my healing
moment happened you know and closed
doors in the middle of the woods like my
healing moment was with me but now my
story I have seen the power in my story
and I'll share it as many times as I
have to for people to have the ability
to through my story find their moment in
the woods there a moment behind the
closed door because that's what's going
to change their life and ultimately
gonna change the planet and it's in to
me it's the more vulnerable that story
can be and when you look at comic books
I think it's a lot of individual stories
that they've hidden behind these kind of
you know super human characters if you
would in order to create a shield so
that they don't have to you know have
that vulnerability and that ridicule I
cannot tell you the amount of ridicule
that I've gone through in sharing story
of my personal story which I never saw
coming it was never something but I
think that all story you know you
brought up you know like mythology and
and the Greeks and like all the stories
they were telling had to do with certain
things that humanity has been dealing
with for eons ever since you know we've
we've been here and now we tell it in
these comic stories and there's so much
power to them but to me it's story in
general more people need to share their
story not in a victim way and not
sharing a tap for a point of healing but
for a point of literally empowering but
I would encourage anyone share your
story even if it's just inside of your
own ecosystem I mean your family in your
community if there's something you've
been holding and and heal through it and
then share it because guarantee there's
somebody else who's going through
something similar
and you will be able to reach them I
can't reach everybody my story doesn't
my personality it's not gonna click with
every single person but the more of us
that share openly the more impact that
we're gonna have and kind of solve this
global dysfunction that we're dealing
with yeah there was I had this really
like immense sense that at the human
camp one thing that you were really
making visceral and real for the people
that go there is you are not alone yeah
and hearing these kids talk I mean it
really guys you go watch some of these
stories they are they're simple they're
deadly simple like these kids are what
it must be like 12 to 14 ish yeah our
camp ranges from 12 to 18 but most the
stories that I think yeah you're 12 to
15 yeah they they were so beautiful in
their unguarded nests and the way that
the kids were talking about maybe for
the first time and maybe realizing for
the first time that hey this crazy
experience that I had this sense that I
am I am massively alone in this just
huge void of a life because obviously
normally these are kids that are
struggling and so they they're they
don't have the normal infrastructure of
parents we have and they're you know
talking about what they've been through
and that their punch line is here being
at this camp and sharing with these
other people I'm getting reflected back
the sense that I'm not alone that
somebody actually understands my
struggle and for all the horrible
that comes with this highly social world
that we're living in there is a flip
side to that and the reason that the
first question I asked you was about how
you refined beauty is because that to me
is is interesting you get what you focus
on right and so you can focus on the
dark you can focus on the neglect or
what your parents did or didn't do or
you can choose to focus on finding like
those little glimmers of beauty that you
talked about and fan those flames focus
on them think about them obsess over
them like most people obsess over
negativity and it begins to build this I
think of as you know embers glowing
embers into a fire and now you've got
this warmth you see these kids
go through that in like real time in
front of the camera it was so cool yeah
the the simplicity of just knowing that
you're not alone is is really not simple
it's it's math
because in those dark moments you are
alone for the most part you are
physically alone and so then it's not
that hard to take it from a physical to
a mental state of I'm the only one being
molested I'm the only one being beaten
I'm the only one with alcoholic parents
I'm the only one with a mom and dad who
hate each other I'm the only one that
lives in a really wealthy community but
everyone's lying to each other like you
it's really simple for that to happen
but the the reality is is you're not and
when you're not alone you have community
what does community give you safety
right it all comes back to like being
safe and if I feel safe then I have
power and then I can do something and
control and all these different elements
so you know yes that's huge and it's a
massive thing that we talk about you
know not being alone so what's something
that you like if you had to pick one
thing that you want to make sure that
the kids get out of human camp what is
it the biggest thing is is is really
understanding the power that they
possess right so our whole mission you
know when you take all the fluff and all
the marketing words out of it is
empowerment
that's it it's it's an true empowerment
not marketing word empowerment but so
define it then for also true empowerment
of understanding that you're in control
you control your destiny you can create
what you want to create you have gifts
that nobody else on the planet has you
have talent you have everything
everything you need to become whatever
you want is right here right and and I
don't care what the limitations are
physical mental spiritual I don't care
any everything is there for you you know
so the point is is that with these
children as you're going through you
find these little glimpses these little
pieces and then you explore what they
really mean and then you just find like
this huge root system that's underneath
there and then you start just really
building from there and that's where you
can just motivate them to go to the next
level
mmm super powerful all right before we
get to our last question where can these
guys find you so you can google me
apparently I hear that works that works
well yeah so Wesley D Chapman but really
like and we haven't got too much into it
but really focus on the organization a
human project I mean we're doing things
there
that our people are telling them can't
be done like my personal goals I want to
impact a billion people on this planet
before I die like that's my goal and I
also want to put ourselves out of
business so it's like this double hedge
you know double-headed sword in fact
right before this I was on a call
explaining that to somebody like you
wanna put yourself out of business I'm
like yes like for the first time in my
life I'm building a company that should
that needs to die like I don't want to
still be talking about this in 20 years
like the fact that we as a global human
society are still having conversations
about children being abused and going
through horrific situations to me just
like blows my mind like what's the
secret to actually getting rid of that
problem self-worth to me and it and it's
also the shame but in my opinion it
comes down to self-worth and eliminating
shame from these things so we can have
real conversations so that it just
doesn't become something that people
have to deal with alone a human project
is on a huge mission like I know that I
know we can't do it alone that's why
we're enlisting the help that we're
listing like we're not this isn't this
isn't a simple problem to solve in the
sense of the global aspect of it but the
solution is simple and it just has to be
understood right like I've I've been
asked hundreds of times
why are you Wes right why aren't you the
stereotypical like you're abused you
went through this your dad's an
alcoholic your mom's this you're like
why aren't you in that pool I made a
choice that's it I made a choice I made
a choice that I didn't want to be that
there's nothing special about me
there's nothing miraculous about Who I
am like the only miraculous cool thing
is I don't have to eat or sleep
sometimes like that's it
I just made one choice when I was 16
years old that I was no longer gonna be
a victim and I was gonna be a hero to
myself and that I was going to change my
life and I had no idea that would leave
me here and no idea I'd be here in the
set talking to you doing what we're
doing no idea it was never part of the
plan the only thing I knew is I didn't
want to be the victim and this other
trajectory of life I wanted something
different so I made that choice and now
I'm here and everyday is like I wake up
and I'm like holy crap like when I got
the email from your team I'm like really
me
cool humming like watching your show and
I'm like holy crap look at all these
guests that are on there and I'm like
things are just happening and it's
because of one choice and that's it so
if you're listening to this and you're
thinking you've made all these different
choices and your life is in one
direction make one different choice just
one and see where it goes
Wow well you've answered the question I
was gonna ask you which is what is the
impact you want to have on the world but
I think that's pretty clear yes thank
you so much thank you coming up it's
absolutely incredible
thank you guys you're gonna want to dive
deep into this man's world that notion
of it being a choice that at the end of
the day it's your choice and that you're
gonna get the life that you focus on and
you choose what you're gonna focus on so
put the victim to bed wake the hero up
instead I love that it is fun it rhymes
and therefore is so much more true but
here's the thing it's actually gonna
work and I think that Wes really made
clear that you need to be determining
your choices based on efficacy what is
actually working and if going in the
victim direction is giving you a zero
result and it's not delivering anything
but more pain and that you're
reinforcing that cycle in your own mind
to go in the opposite direction and to
really begin to tell yourself a news
story to find those little glimmers of
hope and beauty and to fan those flames
and turn them into something that you
can think about that really are true
they're really something born in your
life but you choose to put more energy
and effort into something powerful
that's gonna push you in a direction
that's going to give you the kinds of
results that you want your life all you
have to do is look at where this man
started and where he's ended up to
understand that if there's nothing
special about him and he's done all of
that then there really is no limit to
what you guys can do so guys I hope that
you got the chills from this guy as many
times as I have it's absolutely
incredible and as you go deeper into his
world it's just gonna be more and more
of that and like you said please go to a
human project calm and click on the
stories of the kids it's gonna blow you
away it affected me deeply so be sure to
check it out all right guys this is a
weekly show so be sure to subscribe my
friends and until next time be legendary
take care Wes thank you so much
everybody thanks so much for joining us
for another episode of impact theory if
this content is adding value to your
life our 1 ask is that you go to iTunes
and stitcher and rate and review not
only does that help us build this
community which at the end of the day is
all we care about but it also helps us
get even more amazing guests on here to
show their knowledge with all of us
thank you guys so much for being a part
of this community and until next time be
legendary my friends
[Music]